Hello and welcome to another lecture here in our little mini Android where of course I'm really excited
for this lecture because we're going to be building a very simple yet also very useful app.
I'm going to call it the people counter but basically the idea is you're someone that needs to count
people whether you're seen how many people are coming into museum or you're like a teacher and need
to know how many kids went out to recess whatever it is it's going to be a simple Watch app that you
can put on your wrist and in the middle is going to be a big text view.
It's going to start as the number zero.
But as the count increments it it's going to go up to 1 2 3 4.
So below that text view is going to be a button that allows you to increment the count and on the top
is going to have a reset button that takes that text you back to zero.
So a very straightforward app right.
We have one text view and two buttons.
But again this is an android where someone wants you to kind of get used to that whole layout.
And I want to do it as a challenge because I think you have what it takes in order to do this.
So go ahead and hit pause now and go tackle it.
All right.
Hopefully that went well.
Let's go ahead and make a new Android studio project.
I'm going to call mine the people counter.
Everything looks good.
I'll hit next.
I want this to be an android where so uncheck that.
And I really liked building for API 26 so I think I'll do that again.
That was fun.
And we'll go do it main activity and hit finish here.
All right.
So as this opens up again we've got to have two buttons and a text view in order to get this thing working.
And then we're going to write the code here in order to increment the count or reset it whatever is
necessary there.
So because the visual side of this layout stuff is taking a minute here maybe let's go ahead and start
writing some of the code for this.
I think we know everything that we need to do.
The first thing that's going to be required here is we need to have some way to track that count.
And so I'm going to make a new and that I'm going to call count.
It will just initially set that equal to zero.
So we have a new count.
It's equal to zero.
A good starting place.
And then remember there's two buttons which means we need to have two methods so one of these is going
to be public void and we'll go ahead and call this plus one.
This is going to pass in a view.
Let me make sure I properly get that important.
And we're also going to have another method.
Let's go ahead and copy and paste this one and we're going to call this one.
Just simply reset.
Right.
This is if they want to reset the counter.
So as far as the code goes this is extremely straightforward right.
If someone hits the plus but one plus one we just take our count.
We do plus plus that's it.
That ad one adds one onto the count and once we've done that then we want to update the text view.
So we already have access to this text view here right.
It has everything set up for us it's kind of interesting that there's that example set up code here
when you do a blank project with Android Wear but we'll take it and we're going to say this M.Tech view
does set text and we are going to set this to take our count.
We're going to have to convert it into a string so we'll say cap a capital integer to string.
And this is we're going to we're going to pass in the count.
OK.
So we'll go ahead and throw that in there so that's going to update it.
And if you think about the reset it's going to be almost the same as this except instead of count plus
plus we'll just take our count and set that equal to zero.
And then we'll do the exact same code here where we go ahead and update the text for you.
So like I said pretty straightforward.
Let's go ahead and do the lay out part of this.
Now I went and researched a little bit between this video and we can in fact use a constraint lay out
if you'd like so we can delete this frame layout and if we go to our layouts and pull in a constraint
layout it is going to ask us to say hey are you going to.
Are you going to be able to add this from your library will hit.
OK.
Now note this isn't available with all API options so you got to make sure that you have one that can
support it.
But with this constraint layout we can add the three items that we need so we need two buttons.
Let's go ahead and put one button here.
Kind of up near the top and there comes our button.
So let's maybe say that's going to be a certain distance from the top and we're going to right click
and make makes sure that this gets centered horizontally.
Next we need to have a button that's more down towards the bottom.
So kind of put that down towards the bottom and that will give the lay out a second here.
Maybe the button didn't come through.
Oh no.
There goes it's just extremely laggy.
So we'll select this button and we'll say you need to be connected to the bottom and let's make it the
same distance to the bottom so eight of the top eight the bottom here and we'll right click and say
you need to be centered horizontally then we are going to add in the text view.
So we're going to go grab a text for you bring it into the middle and all right click this guy and say
you should be centered horizontally and you should be centered vertically.
So that should get us set up in both situations.
Now as far as this text view goes initially we want it to you know just have the text of zero.
So go ahead and put that in.
And that's really hard to read.
So I'm going to go ahead and view all attributes here and I'm going to increase the size of that.
So I'm going to go to tech size here.
Let's maybe see what 30 looks like.
That's pretty big.
Let's maybe see what like 50 looks like.
Now we're talking I think I think that's the right size.
Now up here the top we want this to be a reset button so I'll just type in the name reset and down here
at the bottom.
This is going to be your plus one so I'm just going to do the plus side and the number one.
Now the last thing that we need to do is connect up those methods.
So for plus one I'm going to copy this name of the method.
Bring it back here and put that into the unclick and also get the name of research here and we'll go
to our reset button and we'll change it on click method.
OK.
So with that in place let's go ahead and test this out see what it looks like.
We'll start first on the round emulator here.
We'll go ahead and get our emulators up and running here.
Previous student of mine this was the app that got them interested in programming.
He was actually a soccer referee and he needed a way to keep track of the time in the soccer match and
he also needed to keep it a way to keep track of the score.
So a little bit more of a complex app than this but that's what really got him interested and ultimately
went on to making more and more apps beyond that.
But it just kind of reminiscent as we were making this app I thought yeah this reminds me of a previous
student of mine.
So this here comes the app.
Let's hit that plus one button.
Oh and we have encountered an error.
Let's go ahead and see what that's about.
That was for a round so we'll make sure we have round selected and could not execute the on click scene.
It did not execute a method.
OK.
My guess here is that it couldn't find the proper are on clicks or maybe have bad names or something.
So we have all lowercase reset here.
But it was the plus one button that we were working with so let's go and see what that looks like.
So we have on set as Plus one will go back and we have the name plus one there and let's see if we have
the proper view coming through.
I'm not sure what the issue is here.
So this had nothing to do with our on click method.
It was all about that we didn't give the proper ID to this text for you remember we had one set up for
us and it had an ID down here of just simply text so we need to copy that idea of text.
And for the text you there we'll go ahead and put that in.
That should fix things for us so let's go ahead and try this one more time.
We're going to run this for our round emulator here.
We'll go ahead and wait for that to pop up.
And here we go.
Fingers crossed this doesn't die on us.
And look at that we can keep upping the score.
We can reset it back to zero and keep upping that.
And just for kicks let's go ahead and stop this one.
Let's go ahead and run it on our Square see what that looks like.
So we'll go ahead and hit run on that.
Look at that.
This one's came up much faster than before we get our plus button boom.
It's excellent.